---
layout: archive
title: "Publications"
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: false
---

## Ph.D. Thesis
- Naoko Sawada (2021). Visual Analytics of Features in Multi-Dimensional Time-Dependent Observation Datasets of Blazars \[Doctoral dissertation, Keio University\]. [Keio Associated Repository of Academic Resources](modules/xoonips/detail.php?koara_id=KO50002002-20215642-0003).

## Journal
- _Naoko Sawada_, Makoto Uemura, Issei Fujishiro. "Multi-dimensional Time-series Subsequence Clustering for Visual Feature Analysis of Blazar Observation Datasets," Astronomy and Computing, Vol. 41, Article No. 100663, DOI: 10.1016/j.ascom.2022.100663,  November 2022. [ScienceDirect](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S2213133722000774)
- _Naoko Sawada_, Makoto Uemura, Johanna Beyer, Hanspeter Pfister, and Issei Fujishiro. "TimeTubesX: A Query-Driven Visual Exploration of Observable, Photometric, and Polarimetric Behaviors of Blazars," IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, Vol. 28, No. 4, pp. 1917-1929, doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2020.3025090, April 2022. [IEEE Xplore](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9200781)
- Issei Fujishiro, _Naoko Sawada_, Masanori Nakayama, Hsiang-Yun Wu, Kazuho Watanabe, Shigeo Takahashi, and Makoto Uemura. “TimeTubes: Visual Exploration of Observed Blazar Datasets,” Journal of Physics: Conference Series (JPCS), Vol. 1036, No. 1, Article No. 012011, Kyoto, Japan, 2018. DOI: 10.1088/1742-6596/1036/1/012011 [IOPscience](http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1742-6596/1036/1/012011)
- Makoto Uemura, Ryosuke Itoh, Ioannis Liodakis, Dmitry Blinov, Masanori Nakayama, Longyin Xu, _Naoko Sawada_, Hsiang-Yun Wu, Issei Fujishiro. “Optical polarization variations in the blazar PKS 1749+096,” Publications of the Astronomical Society of Japan (PASJ), Vol. 69, No. 6, Article No. 96, DOI: 10.1093/pasj/psx111, November 2017. [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.02524)[Oxford Academic](https://academic.oup.com/pasj/article/69/6/96/4609697)

## Conference Proceedings
- _Naoko Sawada_, Pedro Miraldo, Suhas Lohit, Tim K. Marks, and Moitreya Chatterjee. "FreBIS: Frequency-Based Stratification for Neural Implicit Surface Representations," in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) Workshops, 2025. Oral presentation. [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20222)
- Shoki Miyagawa, Atsuyoshi Yano, _Naoko Sawada_, and Isamu Ogawa. "High-Dimensional Bayesian Optimization with Constraints: Application to Powder Weighing," in Proceedings of PDPAT2022/MPS139, 2022. [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.05988)
- Issei Fujishiro, _Naoko Sawada_, Makoto Uemura. "Clustering, Universalities, and Evolutionary Schema Design," in Proceedings of the Workshops of the EDBT/ICDT 2023 Joint Conference, CEUR Workshop Proceedings, Vol. 3379, 6th International Workshop on Big Data Visual Exploration and Analytics (BigVis 2023), Ioannina, Greece (Hybrid), March 28, 2023. [pdf](https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3379/BigVis2023_702.pdf)
- Makoto Uemura, Issei Fujishiro, _Naoko Sawada_, et al.: “Finding features in erratic polarization variations of blazars,” in Proceedings of International Astronomical Union Symposium 360 Astronomical Polarimetry 2020, Hiroshima, March 2021. [Conference page](https://astropol2020-iau.jp/)
- Nicholas Ruta, _Naoko Sawada_, Katy McKeough, Michael Behrisch, Johanna Beyer. “SAX Navigator: Time Series Exploration Through Hierarchical Clustering,” in Proceedings of 2019 IEEE Visualization Conference (VIS), Vancouver, BC, Canada, DOI: 10.1109/VISUAL.2019.8933618, October 2019. [IEEE Xplore](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8933618) [Fast forward video](https://vimeo.com/364567202)
- _Naoko Sawada_, Masanori Nakayama, Makoto Uemura, and Issei Fujishiro. “TimeTubes: Automatic Extraction of Observable Blazar Features from Long-Term, Multi-Dimensional Datasets,” in Proceedings of 2018 IEEE Scientific Visualization Conference (SciVis), Berlin, Germany, DOI: 10.1109/SciVis.2018.8823802, October 2018. [IEEE Xplore](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8823802) [Fast forward video](https://vimeo.com/290328934)
- _Naoko Sawada_, Masanori Nakayama, Hsiang-Yun Wu, Makoto Uemura, and Issei Fujishiro. “TimeTubes: Visual Fusion and Validation for Ameliorating Uncertainty of Blazar Datasets from Different Observatories,” Short papers, in Proceedings of the Computer Graphics International Conference (CGI 2017), Article No. 14, Yokohama, Japan, DOI: 10.1145/3095140.3095154, June 2017. [ACM Digital Library](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3095154)
- _Naoko Sawada_, Masanori Nakayama, Hsiang-Yun Wu, Makoto Uemura, and Issei Fujishiro. “TimeTubes: Visual Fusion for Ameliorating Uncertainty of Blazar Datasets from Different Observatories,” Refereed posters, in Proceedings of 10th IEEE Pacific Visualization Symposium (PacificVis 2017), pp. 336―337, Seoul, Korea, April 2017.

# Oral Presentation
- _Naoko Sawada_, Makoto Uemura, Johanna Beyer, Hanspeter Pfister, Issei Fujishiro: “TimeTubesX: A query-driven visual exploration of observable, photometric, and polarimetric behaviors of blazars,” invited talk, in Proceedings of the Visual Computing 2020, pp: 14:1―14:2, Online, December 2―4, 2020 (in Japanese).
- _Naoko Sawada_, Makoto Uemura, Issei Fujishiro: “TimeTubesX: Identifying Characteristic Blazar Behaviors Through Query-Driven Visual Exploration,” in Proceedings of the 48th Symposium on Visualization in Japan, Article No. 088, Online, September 24―26, 2020.
- _Naoko Sawada_, Masanori Nakayama, Makoto Uemura, and Issei Fujishiro. “TimeTubes: Feature Extraction of Observed Blazar Datasets for Detailed and Efficient Data Analysis,” in the 284th Reports of the Technical Conference of The Institute of Image Electronics Engineers of Japan, pp. 19―23, Hiroshima, Japan, March 2018 (in Japanese).
- Issei Fujishiro, Shigeo Takahashi, Kazuho Watanabe, Hsiang-Yun Wu, _Naoko Sawada_, Makoto Uemura. “Consolidation of Visualization Platform Toward Facilitating Sparse Modeling,” Poster, in the 5th Public Symposium of KAKENHI Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research on Innovative Areas “Initiative for High-Dimensional Data-driven Science through Deepening of Sparse Modeling”, December 2017 (in Japanese).
- _Naoko Sawada_, Masanori Nakayama, Hsiang-Yun Wu, Makoto Uemura, and Issei Fujishiro. “TimeTubes: Visual Fusion for Detailed and Precise Analysis of Time-Varying Multi-Dimensional Datasets,” in the International Meeting on “High-Dimensional Data-Driven Science” (HD3-2017), September 2017.
- Issei Fujishiro, Shigeo Takahashi, Kazuho Watanabe, Hsiang-Yun Wu, _Naoko Sawada_, and Makoto Uemura. “On the Perspicuity of Multidimensional Data Visualization,” Poster, in the 1st Public Symposium in the 2017 business year of KAKENHI Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research on Innovative Areas “Initiative for High-Dimensional Data-driven Science through Deepening of Sparse Modeling”, June 2017 (in Japanese).
- _Naoko Sawada_, Masanori Nakayama, Makoto Uemura, Hsiang-Yun Wu, and Issei Fujishiro. “TimeTubes: Visual Fusion for Ameliorating Uncertainty of Blazar Datasets from Different Observatories,” in Proceedings of the 79th IPSJ National Convention, Vol. 79, No. 4, pp. 85―86, Nagoya, Japan, March 2017, Student Encouragement Award (in Japanese).
